Who We Are  
IESANZ is a professional membership association providing a wide range of benefits and professional 
opportunities for our members.  Members are recognized  by federal state and local governments, and 
include engineers, architects, educators, students, contractors, manufacturers and designers.  
The association is largely run by volunteers and is looking to build a new website that will last years.  
 
Objective  
Provide a more productive and value driven website for both administration, members, and chapters  
which can be built upon in future updates . 
The key principle to guide this i s that the website has two components, the informative front e nd and a 
management CRM  side for members and administrators.   
The management CRM is mainly a database for  members and manag ing memberships with additional 
functions like purchases and report generation.  
The IESANZ  is leaning towards a word press solution  powered by plugins , such as Membermouse, 
Memberpress or Brilliant Directories as opposed to a fully custom coded solution.  To ensure the 
proposed plugins meet our needs, it is propose d that as a part  of development, plugins are tested early  
before any major configuration  to see if they meet  our needs  in terms of usability and features.  
 
Front End  
Update and refresh the current front end.  
Current Pages Include :  
• Memberships – detailing the different grades and subscriptions  
• Awards – highlighting the different awards relevant to the society.  
• Chapters – each chapter has their own page highlighting new, local events, the committee and 
calendar.  
• Member Lookup – Provides a lookup for a specific member detailing their grade  
• Education  – Display current education opportunities  
• Conference – displays the most recent or upcoming conference that is held every two years.  
• Online Store – Non -members can purchase publications  and job advertisements  
The above structure can change depending on design and useability advice.  Some of the pages should 
draw on the CRM backend i.e. member lookup,  chapters  and calendars.  
 
Management CRM  
There are four types of users who will have different levels of access, authority and requirements : 
1. Members  
2. Non-members  
3. Administration  
4. Chapters  
5. Board  
Members who comprise of both corporate and non -corporate members should be able to login, update 
their details, renew or change their memberships .  
Non-members will comprise of either new members buying a membership, buying event purchases, or 
buying on behalf of a member.  
Administration will primarily be running reports , managing sales, managing membership requests, and 
purchasable items.  
Chapters should be able to update their chapter page including elements such as news, and their 
calendar.  
To assist with a quotation , the management CRM has been broken down in to the feature  areas below , 
with a few which are marked as ‘Future’ which could form part of the initial  development but at least 
should be provisioned for in terms design.  
 
Purchases  
Administrators shou ld be able  to setup a variety of purchases including  the publicly  available  
publications  and job advertisements but also  the different membership  levels  for each financial  year, 
membership upgrades , event ticket sales and event sponsorships.  
 
Purchases should have the following features:  
• Be able to handle foreign currencies, primarily NZD alongside AUD  
• Allow for different tax rates (GST, NZ GST, GST Free)  and go to different payment services based 
on location/purchased item  
• Sync across to Xero  and be able to generate an invoice (either in system or from Xero)  
• Should be tied to account codes available from Xero.  
• Update a member’s status once reconciled in Xero.  
 
Members should be able to upgrade, renew or cancel their memberships. Additionally,  they should be 
able to find and purchase any event tickets or sponsorships  along with any other purchases available . 
Corporate members should be able to renew or purchase a corporate membership . 
Non-member s should also be able to purchase event tickets and purchases , although this could tie into a 
revised public store.  
Purchasers should be able to purchase on behalf of someone else.  
 
Events can have a variety of different price points  and purchase scenarios  including:  
1. Different prices for members and non -members  
2. Multiple levels of sponsorships  
 
Communicating to Members  
There should be a bulletin board with full range of formatting options.  
Members should have access to calendars updated by administration or chapters to see upcoming 
events.  
Members should be able to have the ability to choose their communication preferences including 
different types of communications.  
Administrators should be able to schedule communications to be automatically sent.  
One of the goals here is to improve the usability of communications we send out.  
 
Reporting  
The new CRM should a reporting capability, including a reasonable reporting capability. Majority of 
reporting relates to memberships, such as looking at who is a member, checking for errors from manual 
updating of memberships  and reporting on membership statistics.  
The critical requirement here is being able to report on a historical basis  i.e. a report run February should 
be able to tell me who was a member at the end of January excluding any new or renewed memberships 
that occurred in February.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
User Accounts  & Memberships  
The website should support access control based on their user type  for certain features . Different 
dashboard s should appear based on their type.  
Example – CPA Dashboard:  
 
 
 
Xero Integration  
The website needs to integrate and automatically update Xero. This includes creating sales invoices, 
updating contact cards, creating receive/spend money transactions  with full usage of fields and tracking 
categories . Note that there are multiple bank accounts, and payment services which may change in the 
future. The website needs to support to some degree updating the payment methods and automatic 
imports into Xero  as opposed to hard coding . This could be achieved via a third -party plugin.  
 
Event Management  & Chapters   
This is a space  where each chapter’s event coordinator can see on each event, who has paid, raised an 
invoice not paid, and run reports on past events.   
Additionally, Chapters should be able to  also update their own landing page on the front s ide. 
 
Tools and Resources Section  
This would assist members (potentially non -members) by providing a clear are to access:  

• Policy and Advocacy  
• Upgrading memberships  
• Career development (Courses, events, engagement opportunities)  
• Also look at a register so people can search our member profiles (if looking for a MIES to 
approve certification etc.)  
 
Corporate Account s – Future  
A corporate account is for businesses to manage their engagement with IESANZ.  
1. Allow for the purchasing of Corporate Members and manage their members lists.  
2. Allow for the purchasing event tickets and sponsorships.  
3. View and report on both above.  
A corporate account would possibly have two status’s: IESANZ managed and self -managed. The idea 
being that purchases made are still linked and changes to memberships still viewable if it ever switches 
to self -managed.   
 
 
 
 
 
Continued Professional Development – Future  
Add support for members to track and monitor  their continued professional development.  
Example from CPA  of their CPD tracker :
 
  

Dashboard for Administrators – Optional  Future  
This would be where the secretariat and accounts can see any both current statistics and current issues.  
Statistics might include current members count, previous members count last financial year, list of lapsed 
memberships etc.  
Current issues might include alerts to failed payments, failed imports, members who need assistance, 
when imports into Xero have failed etc.  